
Present fears are less than horrible imaginings
Macbeth 1.3.145

And do not forget to do good and to share with others, for with such sacrifices [I am] pleased.
 - Hebrews 13:16

To be naïve and easily deceived is impermissible, today more than ever, 
when the prevailing untruths may lead to a catastrophe because they blind people 
to real dangers and real possibilities.
 - Erich Fromm The Art of Being


The righteous who walks in his integrity— blessed are his children after him! 
Proverbs 20:7

Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house.
Malachi 3:10

The way of truth is one and artless: the way of private gain and success in such affairs
as we are entrusted with is double, uneven and fortuitous.
Montaigne 
Book III, Essay 1: Of the useful and the honorable

In nature there’s no blemish but the mind;
None can be call’d deform’d but the unkind.
 - Shakespeare

Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes.
‭‭ - Proverbs‬ ‭26:5‬

We must reject the idea that every time a law's broken, 
society is guilty rather than the lawbreaker. 
It is time to restore the American precept that each individual is accountable for his actions.
 - Ronald Reagan

Take time to work, it is the price of success.
Take time to think, it is the source of power.
Take time to play, it is the secret of perpetual youth.
Take time to read, it is the foundation of wisdom.
Take time to be friendly, it is the road to happiness.
Take time to love and be loved, it is the privilege of the gods.
Take time to share, life is too short to be selfish.
Take time to laugh, laughter is the music of the soul.
 - Irish prayer

I wish you enough sun to keep your attitude bright.
I wish you enough rain to appreciate the sun more.
I wish you enough happiness to keep your spirit alive.
I wish you enough pain so that the smallest joys in life appear much bigger.
I wish you enough gain to satisfy your wanting.
I wish you enough loss to appreciate all that you possess.
I wish you enough 'hellos' to get you through the final 'goodbye.'
 - Bob Perks

Life is the making-one of Mind and Soul; accordingly Death is not the destruction of those that are at-oned, but the dissolving of their union.
 - Corpus Hermeticum xi.14: Mind Unto Hermes

Know this, my beloved brothers: let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to anger; 
 - James 1:19 ESV

The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight. 
 - Proverbs 4:7 

The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy One is insight. 
 - Proverbs 9:10 ESV

There are hundreds of paths up the mountain, all leading to the same place, so it doesn't matter which path you take. 
The only person wasting time is the one who runs around the mountain, telling everyone that his or her path is wrong.

Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. 
Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others.
 - Philippians 2:3-4 ESV

Whoever thinks that we know nothing does not know whether we know enough to say that this is so.
 - Lucretius

Time, and the work of changing days, has made
Many a bad thing good; fortune has played
With many men, and set them firm again.
 - Virgil

Hope tells a flattering tale,
  Delusive, vain and hollow.
Ah! let not hope prevail,
  Lest disappointment follow.
 - Miss Wrother—In the Universal Songster. Vol. II. P. 86.

Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; 
but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.
 - 1 Corinthians 10

Time is an ocean, but it ends at the shore.
 - Bob Dylan / Oh, Sister

"Lack of proper prior planning on your part does not constitute an emergency on mine"
 - Old English Proverb

“Political correctness is a doctrine, fostered by a delusional minority and rapidly promoted by mainstream media, 
which says it is entirely possible to pick up a piece of shit by the clean end.”
 - unknown

I had to recognize that I am only the expression and symbol of the soul
- Carl Jung, Liber Novus, Soul and God, The Red Book, p. 234

The heroic in you is the fact that you are ruled by the thought that this or that is good, 
that this or that performance is indispensable, this or that cause is objectionable, 
this or that goal must be attained in headlong striving work, this or that pleasure should be 
ruthlessly repressed at all costs. Consequently you sin against incapacity. But incapacity exists. 
No one should deny it, find fault with it, or shout it down.
 - ibid p. nnn

By definition, those who do research for the ruling class are part of the establishment.
 - Bram Dijkstra, Idols of Perversity, p. 162

As long as things are in their beginnings they can be controlled, 
but once they have grown to their full consequences they acquire 
a power so overwhelming that man stands impotent before them.
 - Richard Wilhelm, I Ching, Introduction p. liii

Woe betide those who live by way of examples! Life is not with them. 
If you live according to an example, you thus live the life of that example, 
but who should live your own life if not yourself? So live yourselves.
 - C. G. Jung, Liber Primus (The Red Book)

Most success in life is related to [the] capacity to focus.
 - P. T. Mistleberger, Three Dangerous magi, p. 470

An optimist looks at a glass and says the glass is half full. 
A pessimist looks at a glass and says it is half empty.
An engineer looks at a glass and says that the glass is twice as big as it needs to be.
 - unknown

The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their right names
 - Chinee proverb

 ...likely to come in the form of a highly focused strategy that includes 
 a wide-reaching plan and deducing a series of direct steps to making it real.
 - corporate babble?

A conclusion is not a destination, it's simply a convenient place to stop thinking.
 - unknown
 
Priority of constituencies:
In case of conflict, consider users over authors over implementers over specifiers over theoretical purity.

A postponing mind goes on always postponing. It is not a question
of whether you are going to do it tomorrow; there is only a question
because you are not going to do it today, that is all. Tomorrow will 
again be today, and same mind will say, "Okay, I am going to do
it tomorrow."
- Osho, Book of Secrets, p. 582


Take some quiet, sober moment of life, and add together 
the two ideas of Pride and Man; behold him, creature of a span,
stalking through infinite space in all the grandeur of littleness!
Perched on a speck in the Universe, every wind of Heaven striked into
his blood the coldness of death; his soul floats away from his body 
like the melody from the string. Day and night, like dust on the wheel,
he is rolled along the heavens, through a labyrinth of worlds, and 
all the creations of God are flaming on every side, further than 
even his imagination can reach. Is this creature to make for 
himself a crown of glory, to deny his own flesh, to mock at his
fellow, sprung with him from that dust to which both will soon return?
Does the proud man not err? Does he not suffer? Does he not die?
When he reasons, is he never stopped short by difficulties? When 
he acts, does he never succumb to the temptations of pleasure? When 
he lives, is he free from pain? Do the diseases not claim him
as their prey? When he dies, can he escape the common grave? Pride is 
not the heritage of man. Humility should dwell with frailty, and
atone for ignorance, error and imperfection.
- Albert Pike, Morals and Dogma, p. 38

Whenever you have settled on your theory and creed, sanction no
departure from it in practice, on any ground of expediency.
- ibid p. 85

Explain it more.
- jessa 2/11/2010

Evolution is...  the never-ending flow of Divine-Consiousness out of itself; 
all creation, though continually moving, never arrives at any state 
other than that of ceaseless flow.
- M. P. Hall on Hegel, The Secret Teachings of All Ages, Introduction, p. XVII
 
For there is not any thing which is of greater importance
with respect to science, experience and wisdom than the ability of remembering.
- Iamblichus, Life of Pythagoras

As a sword cannot cut itself, nor a finger touch its own tip, 
so mind cannot see itself.
-- Sufi aphorism

When I was a child, 
I spake as a child, 
I felt as a child, 
I thought as a child: 
now that I am become a man, 
I have put away childish things.
 - 1 Corinthians 13:11

Chewy ewy gooey on the inside
Golden flaky tender cakey outside
You wrap the inside in the outside
Is it good? Darn-tootin'! 
It's the big Fig Newton
Here's the tricky part
The big Fig Newton
One more time
The big Fig Newton!"

People come and go, but do they really stop and look to see what's inside the underbelly of the beast? 
Well, I make them stop, and I make them look. 
Hope you like what you see! 
HOPE YOU LIKE WHAT YOU SEE!
 - Otis: House of 1000 Corpses

A man's character is his fate.
 — Heraclitus, Greek philosopher (c. 540-c. 475 B.C.)

As if with the nut and the flower, the nut has become less than the flower.
 - Miyamoto Musashi, A Book of Five Rings, Chapter 1, The Ground Book

Someone once said "Immature strategy is the cause of grief". That was a true saying.
 - ibid.

Against stupidity the gods themselves contend in vain. 
 - Friedrich Schiller 

Whenever possible, I prefer to eat the rude. 
 - Hannibal Lecter  

If there be any life that it is really better we
should lead, and if there be any idea which, if
believed in, would help us to lead that life, then
it would be really <i>better for us</i> to believe in that 
idea, <i>unless, indeed, belief in it incidentally
clashed with other greater vital benefits.</i>
 - William James, "What Pragmatism Means"
   from <i>Reason and Responsibility, Second Edition</i>  
   (Dickenson Publishing Company, 1971)

Western culture has made, through language, a provisional analysis of
reality and, without correctives, holds resolutely to that analysis as final.
The only correctives lie in all those other tongues which by aeons of in-
dependent evolution have arrived at different, but equally logical 
provisional analyses.
- attributed to Benjamin Whorf by Robert Lawlor, "Ancient Temple Archetecture",
  from <i>Homage to Pythagoras - rediscovering sacred science</i>
  (Lindisfarne Press)

  
To the Virgins, to make much of Time

Gather ye rosebuds while ye may,
  Old Time is still a-flying: 
And this same flower that smiles to-day
  To-morrow will be dying.

The glorious lamp of heaven, the sun,
  The higher he 's a-getting,
The sooner will his race be run,
  And nearer he 's to setting.
 	
That age is best which is the first,
  When youth and blood are warmer;
But being spent, the worse, and worst
  Times still succeed the former.
 	
Then be not coy, but use your time,
  And while ye may, go marry:
For having lost but once your prime,
  You may for ever tarry.
  
 - Robert Herrick. 1591–1674
